HAS BROUGHT WITH IT
THE LARGEST MOVEMENT OF PEOPLE
IN THE HISTORY OF MODERN TIMES.
EVERYWHERE MILLIONS OF PEOPLE
ARE ON THEIR WAY
TO SOMEWHERE NEW.
NO WALL OR BARRIER IS
STRONG ENOUGH TO STOP MIGRANTS
AS THEY CROSS
INTERNATIONAL BORDERS
ON A JOURNEY
TO WHERE THE ACTION IS:
THE GLOBAL CITIES.
LOCATED AT THE CENTER OF EUROPE
AND THE HEART OF GERMANY,
FRANKFURT IS THE GERMAN CITY
WITH THE LARGEST
FOREIGN POPULATION.
HERE ONE OUT OF THREE
INHABITANTS IS A FOREIGNER.
IMMIGRATION IS SURGING
IN FRANKFURT
AND THE REST OF THE COUNTRY.
ALREADY ALMOST
10 MILLION PEOPLE IN GERMANY
ARE IMMIGRANTS.
THIS IS INSPIRING
RIGHT-WING POLITICIANS
TO PANDER TO XENOPHOBIC
ATTITUDES TO WIN VOTERS.
RECENTLY, IN A FRANKFURT SUBURB
A FAR RIGHT PARTY
CALLED THE REPUBLICANS
HELD A CONVENTION TO OUTLINE
TO WHAT IN ESSENCE IS
AN ANTI-IMMIGRATION PLATFORM.
[MAN TRANSLATING SCHLIERER]
WE CANNOT ACCEPT
ANY MORE IMMIGRANTS.
GERMANY SHOULD INSTEAD
SHIP BACK
TO THEIR OWN COUNTRIES
THE FOREIGNERS
THAT HAVE PROVEN
UNWILLING TO INTEGRATE
INTO THIS COUNTRY.
[CROWD CHANTING IN GERMAN]
NARRATOR: BUT THE
ALARMISTRHETORIC ON THE RIGHT
IS ALSO BEING COUNTERED
BY ANOTHER STRONGLY HELD VIEW
THAT GERMANY NEEDS IMMIGRANTS
TO ENSURE
ITS FUTURE ECONOMIC GROWTH.
WE DO NOT HAVE ENOUGH
EDUCATED PEOPLE
IN ORDER TO CULTIVATE AND FOSTER
THE NEW ECONOMY IN THIS COUNTRY.
SO, WE NEED FOREIGN,
EDUCATED, WELL-INFORMED PEOPLE
IN ORDER TO HELP US
TO ESTABLISH AND CREATE
THE ENVIRONMENT
FOR A GERMAN NEW ECONOMY.
NARRATOR: FRANKFURT IS THE
HUB OF THE GERMAN NEW ECONOMY
AND A GLOBAL FINANCIAL CENTER.
ALMOST 400 INTERNATIONAL BANKS
HAVE OFFICES HERE.
FRANKFURT IS ALSO HEADQUARTERS
OF THE EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK
WHERE PEOPLE FROM 15 COUNTRIES
ARE ATTEMPTING TO FORGE
A COMMON IDENTITY.
ACTUALLY IT'S A GREAT THING
TO HAVE A GROUP OF PEOPLE HERE,
WHICH IS STILL
VERY MUCH EXPANDING,
COMING FROM
THE 15 MEMBER STATES
OF THE EUROPEAN UNION.
[MAN TRANSLATING HOPPENSTEDT]
IN OUR WORK CONTRACT
THERE IS A CLAUSE
WHICH RECOGNIZES
OUR INDIVIDUAL
NATIONAL IDENTITY,
BUT IN ADDITION,
IT ALSO ESTABLISHES
OUR LINKS
WITH THE EUROPEAN UNION,
OUR CITIZENSHIP
OF THE EUROPEAN UNION.
[MAN TRANSLATING CHAILLOUX]
MAYBE IN 10 OR 15 YEARS
GERMANS, ITALIANS, FRENCH,
WILL SLOWLY BEGIN TO LOSE
THEIR INDIVIDUAL
NATIONAL IDENTITY.
THAT'S TRUE.
BUT FOR THE MOMENT
THE REALITY IS
THAT WE ARE WHO WE ARE.
AND WE'RE NOT YET
BLENDING TOGETHER
OUR NATIONAL DIFFERENCES.
NARRATOR: JUST LIKE AT
THE EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK
IN FRANKFURT
GERMANS AND NON-GERMANS
ARE ALSO TRYING
TO FIND A COMMON IDENTITY.
BUT IT OFTEN SEEMS THAT
NOT EVEN PEACEFUL CO-EXISTENCE
IS YET POSSIBLE.
[WOMAN TRANSLATING]
I GET ANGRY AT FOREIGNERS,
BECAUSE THEY MAKE
TOO MANY KIDS
AND THEY TAKE MANY THINGS AWAY
FROM THE GERMAN PEOPLE,
LIKE JOBS AND APARTMENTS.
[WOMAN TRANSLATING
WOLF-ALMANASREH]
FOR US, AN ANTI-DISCRIMINATION
STRATEGY IN FRANKFURT
IS EXTREMELY IMPORTANT,
BECAUSE THERE IS LOTS OF IT
AND OFTEN PEOPLE DON'T EVEN
REALIZE THEY'RE DISCRIMINATING.
NARRATOR:
THE FRANKFURT DEPARTMENT
FOR MULTICULTURAL AFFAIRS,
A UNIQUE EXPERIMENT IN GERMANY,
IS IMPLEMENTING ITS
ANTI-DISCRIMINATION STRATEGY
THROUGH TRAINING WORKSHOPS
WITH THE FRANKFURT
POLICE DEPARTMENT.
[WOMAN TRANSLATING
WOLF-ALMANASREH]
IN THE FIRST PLACE,
THE WORKSHOPS
WITH THE FRANKFURT POLICE
ARE MEANT TO SENSITIZE
OUR POLICE FORCE
IN ITS DEALINGS
WITH FOREIGNERS AND IMMIGRANTS.
AND MORE IMPORTANTLY,
TO PREVENT
ANY KIND OF POLICE ABUSES
AGAINST FOREIGNERS.
[MAN TRANSLATING BERNHARDT]
IN THESE WORKSHOPS
BOTH FOREIGNERS AND GERMANS
ARE LEARNING MUTUAL
UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN CULTURES
AND THIS HOPEFULLY WILL LEAD
TO A MORE TOLERANT BEHAVIOR
ON BOTH SIDES.
NARRATOR: THE ANTI-
DISCRIMINATION STRATEGY
OF THE FRANKFURT DEPARTMENT
FOR MULTI-CULTURAL AFFAIRS
IS ALREADY VISIBLE
ON THE STREETS.
IN FRANKFURT,
UNLIKE OTHER GERMAN CITIES,
NON-GERMANS ARE PERMITTED
TO JOIN THE POLICE FORCE.
[MAN TRANSLATING BENZ]
I DON'T MAKE DISTINCTIONS
BETWEEN MY GERMAN
AND FOREIGN COLLEAGUES.
MY PARTNER'S PARENTS
ARE TURKISH,
BUT FOR ME
HE'S NOT A FOREIGNER,
HE'S MY PARTNER, MY FRIEND.
[CROWD CHANTING]
[MAN TRANSLATING BRANCO]
IT SHOULDN'T MATTER
IF A PLAYER'S
BLACK, WHITE OR RED.
I WANT TO ASK FANS EVERYWHERE
TO HAVE THE COURAGE
TO SUPPORT PLAYERS
WITHOUT LOOKING AT THEIR COLOR.
[MAN TRANSLATING]
I THINK 40 PERCENT
OF THE PLAYERS IN THE GERMAN
FIRST DIVISION ARE FOREIGNERS.
I CAN'T IMAGINE GERMAN FOOTBALL
WITHOUT FOREIGN PLAYERS.
NARRATOR: INDEED GERMANY
IS EMBARKING ON A TURNAROUND
IN ITS 25-YEAR-OLD POLICY
OF STRICTLY
LIMITING IMMIGRATION.
GERMANY IS A COUNTRY THAT
CHANGES AND EVOLVES SLOWLY
AND AT CERTAIN POINTS
IT REACHES A LEVEL WHERE
A BIG CHANGE HAPPENS QUICKLY.
AND I THINK THAT'S
WHAT WE'RE NEARING
IN THE IMMIGRATION THING.
NARRATOR: IN FRANKFURT
ATTITUDES TO IMMIGRATION
ARE INDEED CHANGING,
BECAUSE LIKE
OTHER GLOBAL CITIES,
FRANKFURT IS SWITCHING
FROM AN OLD INDUSTRIAL ECONOMY
TO A NEW
TECHNOLOGY-DRIVEN ECONOMY
AND THERE IS A LABOR SHORTAGE,
ESPECIALLY
IN THE CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY.
NEW, INTERNATIONAL COMPANIES
ARE MOVING INTO THE CITY,
CREATING A HIGH DEMAND
FOR OFFICE SPACE.
TO COPE WITH THIS DEMAND,
THE CITY OF FRANKFURT
HAS PREPARED A PLAN.
THIS IS A MASTER PLAN
AND IT'S CALLED
"FRANKFURT 2000."
THE CONTENT IS 50 NEW PLACES
FOR HIGH-RISINGS.
AND IN THIS "FRANKFURT 2000"
ONE OF THE FIRST
HIGH-RISINGS WE BUILT
IS THE URBAN
ENTERTAINMENT CENTER.
[WOMAN TRANSLATING
WOLF-ALMANASREH]
I THINK THE NEW ECONOMY
IN FRANKFURT
IS BEING BUILT ON THE SHOULDERS
OF IMMIGRANTS AND FOREIGNERS.
NARRATOR: THE PROBLEM
IN THE CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY
IS THAT MANY
OF THE IMMIGRANTS' SHOULDERS
ARE IN FRANKFURT ILLEGALLY.
IN THE FIRST
NINE MONTHS OF 2000
INSPECTORS OF THE GERMAN
MINISTRY OF LABOR
HAVE RAIDED 2300 CONSTRUCTION
SITES IN THE FRANKFURT AREA.
[MAN TRANSLATING SKOPPKE]
THESE FOREIGN WORKERS
HAVE NOTHING TO FEAR
IF THEY HAVE
A VALID WORK PERMIT.
WHAT WE WANT TO KNOW
ARE THEIR WORKING CONDITIONS.
WHO PAYS THEM, WHO HIRES THEM,
AND WHERE
THESE WORKERS COME FROM.
[MAN TRANSLATING GRIESHEIMER]
WITH A CHANGE IN THE LAW
WE NOW HAVE THE AUTHORITY
TO HOLD THE CONSTRUCTION
COMPANY RESPONSIBLE
IF ITS SUBCONTRACTORS
EMPLOY ILLEGAL FOREIGN WORKERS.
COMPANIES CAN NO LONGER
HIDE BEHIND SUBCONTRACTORS
AND PRETEND
THEY HAVE NOTHING TO DO
WITH THE ILLEGAL
FOREIGN WORKERS PROBLEM.
NARRATOR: CONSTRUCTION WORKERS
ARE NOT THE ONLY FOREIGNERS
COMING TO FRANKFURT
TO WORK ILLEGALLY.
AN ESTIMATED
5,000 FOREIGN WOMEN
ARRIVE IN FRANKFURT EVERY YEAR
TO WORK IN THE SEX INDUSTRY.
[WOMAN TRANSLATING HENNING]
THERE'S A REAL NEED
FOR FOREIGN WOMEN
TO WORK AS PROSTITUTES,
BECAUSE THEY'RE
THE ONES PROVIDING
MOST OF THE 12,600
SEXUAL SERVICES
SOUGHT AFTER
IN THIS CITY EVERY DAY.
NARRATOR:
FOR THE PAST THREE YEARS
THIS WOMAN FROM COLOMBIA
HAS REGULARLY TRAVELED
TO FRANKFURT
TO WORK ILLEGALLY
AS A PROSTITUTE.
SHE AGREED TO TELL HER STORY
ON THE CONDITION
THAT HER IDENTITY BE PROTECTED.
[WOMAN TRANSLATING
PROSTITUTE]
I ENTERED GERMANY
THROUGH THE FRANKFURT AIRPORT.
WITH 2,500 DOLLARS IN MY PURSE
AND HOPEFULLY LOTS OF LUCK.
NARRATOR:
THE FRANKFURT AIRPORT
IS ONE OF THE BUSIEST
IN THE WORLD.
50 MILLION PASSENGERS COME
THROUGH THIS AIRPORT EVERY YEAR
AND NO ONE KNOWS HOW MANY
OF THEM ARE ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS.
[MAN TRANSLATING KR GER]
WE'RE IMPLEMENTING
MANY CONTROL MEASURES
TO HELP US IN OUR FIGHT
AGAINST ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS.
TO BE SUCCESSFUL
ANY COUNTRY NEEDS A HIGHLY
TRAINED BORDER POLICE,
AS WELL AS
A SOPHISTICATED INFRASTRUCTURE
AND TECHNOLOGY TO BACK YOU UP.
IN FRANKFURT AIRPORT
WE HAVE ALL OF IT.
[WOMAN TRANSLATING PROSTITUTE]
AT THE AIRPORT
I ALWAYS GET NERVOUS,
'CAUSE I'M COLOMBIAN.
AND COLOMBIANS
ARE HASSLED EVERYWHERE.
SO THERE'S AN X-RAY
AND CHECKING THE BAGS
AND QUESTIONS ABOUT DRUGS
AND WHY YOU'RE COMING
TO FRANKFURT.
SO I THINK IT'S NATURAL
TO GET NERVOUS.
[MAN TRANSLATING KR GER]
WE USE INTERVIEWING TECHNIQUES
DEVELOPED IN
OUR TRAINING PROGRAMS
OVER MANY YEARS.
BUT WE MOSTLY RELY
ON THE HIGH EXPERTISE
OF OUR FRONTLINE INSPECTORS.
THEY NEVER MAKE A DECISION
BASED ONLY ON AN INTERVIEW,
THEY ALSO TAKE INTO ACCOUNT
THE PERSONALITY
AND BEHAVIOR OF THE PASSENGER.
AND OF COURSE,
THEY LOOK VERY CLOSELY
AT PASSPORTS
AND OTHER DOCUMENTS.
[WOMAN TRANSLATING PROSTITUTE]
I TELL IMMIGRATION
I'M A TOURIST.
ALL THE GIRLS I WORK WITH
SAY THEY'RE TOURISTS
AND I ONLY STAY THREE MONTHS
IN FRANKFURT,
LIKE ANY OTHER TOURIST.
AT THE AIRPORT THERE'S
NO SPANISH TRANSLATOR.
THEY SPEAK GERMAN
AND I DON'T UNDERSTAND,
SO I JUST SHOW THEM
THE $2,500 THEY REQUIRE
AND SAY "NO COKE"
AND I'M IN.
NARRATOR: AS LONG
AS THERE IS A DEMAND,
FOREIGN WOMEN WILL CONTINUE
TO COME TO FRANKFURT
AS PROSTITUTES.
AND ON THE STREETS
THEY WILL MIX WITH THOUSANDS
OF OTHER FOREIGN WOMEN
WHO'VE COME TO FRANKFURT
TO WORK AS HIGHLY-TRAINED
PROFESSIONALS.
CAROLYN WEISS:
I DON'T FIND...
NECESSARILY
IN THE WORKING ENVIRONMENT
THAT THERE ARE
ANY ISSUES BEING FEMALE.
YOU GO IN AND ONCE YOU START
DEALING WITH PEOPLE
AND TALKING BUSINESS,
THAT FALLS AWAY.
WHAT IS INTERESTING THOUGH,
IF I GO WITH A COLLEAGUE OR
WITH A CLIENT INTO A RESTAURANT
AND MY PARTNER IS MALE,
THERE IS
AN AUTOMATIC ASSUMPTION
THAT HE IS THE BOSS
OR THE MORE SENIOR PERSON
OF THE TWO OF US.
TO BE A BRIT IN FRANKFURT...
I LOVE IT,
I ABSOLUTELY LOVE IT.
I MEAN, IF NOW I HAD
THE CHOICE TO GO BACK TO LONDON,
I DON'T THINK I WOULD.
I THINK IT HELPS
THAT I SPEAK GERMAN,
BECAUSE IT'S A LOT EASIER
TO MEET NEW PEOPLE
AND FRANKFURT
ITSELF IS INTERNATIONAL.
A LOT OF PEOPLE
COME HERE TO WORK.
NARRATOR: GERMANY'S DOOR
SEEMS TO SWING OPEN
IF ONLY FOR THOSE
WHO CAN SHOW THEY ARE NEEDED.
ITS ZERO GROWTH
IMMIGRATION POLICY
OF THE LAST QUARTER CENTURY
HAS FAILED.
THIS POLICY
HAS ENCOURAGED THE BUSINESS
OF SMUGGLING
ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS
LIKE THIS YOUNG MAN
FROM MOROCCO
ON HIS WAY
TO THE FRANKFURT AIRPORT
ON DEPORTATION ORDERS,
WHILE LEAVING GERMANY
WITH A SHORTAGE
OF SKILLED AN UNSKILLED LABOR.
I THINK
COMPANIES ARE MORE WORRIED
ABOUT FINDING PEOPLE TO KEEP
THE COMPUTER SYSTEM RUNNING
RATHER THAN, WE NEED SECURITY
GUARDS AND SECRETARIES.
SURE, THEY NEED THEM,
BUT I THINK
THE MORE CRITICAL NEED IS STILL
THE SHORTAGE
OF HIGHLY SKILLED WORKERS.
NARRATOR: EXPERTS FEEL
THE PROBLEM WILL GET WORSE
AS GERMANY'S POPULATION AGES.
[MAN TRANSLATING GRIESHEIMER]
WE NEED MIGRATION.
OUR BIRTH RATE IS GOING DOWN
AND OUR LABOR FORCE IS AGING.
WE CAN'T GET AROUND IT.
SO, WE NEED
AN IMMIGRATION POLICY
CLOSELY LINKED TO THE DEMANDS
OF OUR LABOR MARKET.
NARRATOR: GERMANY'S NEED
FOR FOREIGN WORKERS
HAS PROVOKED
A HEATED NATIONAL DEBATE.
FORCING THE GOVERNMENT
TO MOVE CAUTIOUSLY
TO CHANGE
ITS IMMIGRATION POLICY.
A RECENTLY INTRODUCED
GREEN CARD PROGRAM
ALLOWS FOREIGN
HI-TECH SPECIALISTS
TO WORK AND LIVE IN GERMANY
FOR UP TO FIVE YEARS.
BOUDETTE: WE'VE SET ASIDE
20,000 GREEN CARDS
AND THE APPLICANT MUST HAVE
EITHER A UNIVERSITY DEGREE
OR MUST BE EMPLOYED IN A JOB
THAT PAYS MORE THAN
A 100,000 MARKS A YEAR,
WHICH REALLY PRETTY MUCH
KEEPS THAT LIMITED
TO A FAIRLY HIGH LEVEL JOB.
NOW SHORT TERM,
THAT DOESN'T HAVE A HUGE IMPACT
ON THE LABOR MARKET,
BECAUSE THERE'S ONLY FEW
GREEN CARDS WHICH ARE REQUESTED.
BUT LONG TERM,
I THINK, THE SIGNAL
IS MUCH MORE FUNDAMENTAL.
AND THE SIGNAL IS MORE THAN
THE SINGULAR GREEN CARD ISSUED,
IT IS OPENING UP
THE BORDERLINES
TO A FREE FLOW
OF IDEAS AND CREATIVITY
AMONGST NATIONS.
[MAN TRANSLATING MONZ]
WE DON'T BELIEVE THAT
IMPORTING HI-TECH WORKERS
SHOULD BE AN ALTERNATIVE
FOR PROPERLY TRAINING
OUR WORKFORCE HERE IN GERMANY.
AND WE BLAME BOTH
CORPORATIONS AND THE GOVERNMENT
FOR ALLOWING THIS TO HAPPEN.
WHAT THE GERMAN FEDERATION
OF TRADE UNIONS PROPOSES
IS PROPER TRAINING AT HOME
ALONG WITH
AN OPEN IMMIGRATION POLICY.
[MAN TRANSLATING SCHWESINGER]
FOR US GERMANS
IT'S STILL HARD TO ACCEPT
THAT THERE ARE PEOPLE
IN COUNTRIES SUCH AS INDIA
WHO CAN HELP US ON OUR WAY
TO THE INFORMATION AGE.
THE GREEN CARD PROGRAM
IS THE FIRST STEP.
I DON'T THINK IT'S ENOUGH,
BUT IT'S A MOVE
IN THE RIGHT DIRECTION.
NARRATOR: SIX MONTHS
INTO THE GREEN CARD PROGRAM
ONLY 2,000
FOREIGN HI-TECH SPECIALISTS
HAVE APPLIED
TO COME TO GERMANY.
SO REPRESENTATIVES
OF THE FRANKFURT ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
ARE GOING ABROAD TO ATTRACT
HI-TECH SPECIALISTS
AND INVESTORS.
[MAN TRANSLATING SCHWESINGER]
WE ASSIST FOREIGN COMPANIES
TO START UP OPERATIONS
IN FRANKFURT.
WE ALSO TRAVEL ABROAD
TO INDIA FOR EXAMPLE
WHERE WE RECENTLY MET
WITH BUSINESS EXECUTIVES
TO ANSWER
ALL KINDS OF QUESTIONS
FROM TAXES
TO LABOR REGULATIONS.
[TECHNO MUSIC PLAYING]
NARRATOR:
FOREIGNERS COMING TO FRANKFURT
OF COURSE WOULD WANT TO KNOW
ABOUT WORKING CONDITIONS,
BUT WHAT REALLY
SEEMS TO ATTRACT NEWCOMERS
IS ITS INTERNATIONAL
AND MULTICULTURAL FLAVOR.
[MAN TRANSLATING PREWO]
FOR FRANKFURT IT'S COOL
TO HAVE SUCH
GREAT ENTERTAINMENT INPUT
FROM PEOPLE
OF SO MANY DIFFERENT CULTURES.
EVEN THOUGH A LOT OF THEM
WERE BORN IN FRANKFURT,
THEY STILL KEEP
THEIR CULTURAL BACKGROUND
THROUGH THEIR PARENTS,
RELATIVES OR TRIPS HOME.
THESE PEOPLE
ARE GIVING FRANKFURT
A REAL INTERNATIONAL FLAVOR.
[WOMAN TRANSLATING HABTEMARIAM]
WHENEVER I GO TO A CLUB
I LIKE TO THINK MEN LOOK AT ME
BECAUSE I'M A WOMAN
AND NOT BECAUSE OF MY COLOR.
SURE, IN FRANKFURT MY COLOR
IS AN EYE CATCHER.
IT MAKES ME
INTERESTING AND EXOTIC.
THIS I LIKE TO CALL
"POSITIVE RACISM."
[MAN TRANSLATING ROSETTI]
THE ENTIRE CITY, FRANKFURT,
IS FULL OF FOREIGNERS.
WE COME FROM EUROPE
AND EVERYWHERE ELSE.
AND THE MUSIC WE PLAY HERE
IN MY CLUB,
EVERYTHING FROM JAZZ TO LATIN,
SEEMS TO BRING
DIFFERENT PEOPLE TOGETHER.
PEOPLE FROM DIFFERENT CULTURES.
[MAN TRANSLATING GOLDMAN]
A LOT OF THINGS
WILL HAPPEN HERE.
LIFE WILL PULSATE
IN THIS COMPLEX.
RESTAURANTS, NEW MEDIA,
EVERYTHING WILL HAPPEN.
IT WON'T BE
A NINE TO FIVE ENVIRONMENT.
HERE PEOPLE WILL
WORK AND HAVE FUN
AROUND THE CLOCK.
AS YOU CAN SEE
THE ROOM IS NOW EMPTY,
BUT HOPEFULLY IT WILL BE
FILLED WITH YOUNG PEOPLE
WITH GREAT IDEAS,
BRINGING UP
NEW COMPANY START-UPS
IN THE INTERNET FIELD,
SOFTWARE,
I.T., TELECOMMUNICATION.
SO, WE ARE STANDING
AT THE MOMENT IN THE HEART OF
WHICH IS CALLED THE BIGGEST
INCUBATOR IN GERMANY
FOR INTERNET START-UPS.
IN HI-TECH BUSINESS
I SEE A CHANCE.
SO, BECAUSE THIS IS
THE FUTURE ECONOMY.
IT WILL BE EVERY FIFTH JOB
WILL BE IN INTERNET.
THAT WAS THE REASON WHY
I JOINED THE SNACKER COMPANY
HERE IN GERMANY.
I DON'T CARE
THE PLACE I WORK AT.
I MEAN, IT COULD BE
BANGLADESH OR FRANKFURT.
FRANKFURT IS NOT A CITY,
FRANKFURT IS A CHALLENGE.
AS A BLACK AMERICAN
IT'S ALWAYS GONNA BE
A VISIBLE FACTOR,
'CAUSE YOU CAN FEEL IT
THROUGH A GLANCE,
YOU CAN FEEL IT
THROUGH A STARE,
YOU CAN FEEL IT THROUGH
SOME SORT OF BODY MOVEMENT
THAT, YOU KNOW,
YOU'RE NOT WANTED.
THIS WAS BASICALLY
TO GIVE RESPECT
TO A VERY GOOD
FRIEND OF MINE.
THAT WAS MY CAT.
AND THAT WAS FELIX.
HE LIVED TO BE 20 YEARS OLD.
BEING A JEWISH-AMERICAN
IN FRANKFURT
IS SOMEWHAT OF A CHALLENGE.
ONE OF THE BIGGEST SURPRISES
THAT I HAVE FOUND,
AND PERHAPS ONE OF THE SADDEST,
IS THAT WHEN WE GO TO WORSHIP,
THERE ARE ALWAYS POLICE CARS,
THERE'S AN ELECTRONIC GATE,
A BANDED TRAP TO GET INTO
THE JEWISH COMMUNITY CENTER
WHERE OUR WORSHIP SERVICES
ARE HELD.
[MAN TRANSLATING GOLDMAN]
THIS DOESN'T BOTHER ME AT ALL.
I'M FULLY ASSIMILATED.
I LIVE IN FRANKFURT.
I'M A FRANKFURT BOY
AND I DON'T HAVE ANY PROBLEM
WITH ANTI-SEMITISM.
SOMETIMES I HEAR ABOUT IT
FROM FRIENDS,
BUT I'VE NEVER HAD ANY PROBLEM.
NARRATOR: NOT FAR FROM
THE JEWISH COMMUNITY CENTER
IN THE DOWNTOWN AREA
OF FRANKFURT
YOU'LL FIND
A LARGE TURKISH COMMUNITY
AND HIDDEN AMONG SHOPS,
RESTAURANTS AND OFFICES,
YOU'LL COME TO
A TURKISH MOSQUE.
FOR DECADES GERMANS DISMISSED
THE VALUE
OF CULTURAL DIVERSITY.
THEY CONSIDERED RELIGIOUS
AND ETHNIC DIFFERENCES
AS NEGATIVE
TO NATIONAL INTEREST
AND A THREAT
TO GERMAN CULTURE AND IDENTITY.
NEVERTHELESS, THE LARGE
TURKISH COMMUNITY IN FRANKFURT
HAS MANAGED
TO MAINTAIN AND FOSTER
ITS OWN RELIGIOUS
AND CULTURAL IDENTITY.
[WOMAN TRANSLATING SAHIN]
MY WHOLE FAMILY HAS LIVED
IN FRANKFURT FOR 30 YEARS.
WE DON'T FEEL LIKE STRANGERS.
HERE WE CAN KEEP OUR TURKISH
CULTURE AND TRADITIONS.
SO, FOR US NOTHING
HAS CHANGED IN 30 YEARS.
WE'RE STILL TURKS
AND WE WILL RETURN TO TURKEY.
THAT IS OUR DREAM.
NARRATOR:
MANY TURKISH IMMIGRANTS
DREAM OF RETURNING HOME
DRIVING THE SYMBOLS
OF THEIR SUCCESS.
BUT THE NEW GENERATION
OF TURKS IN FRANKFURT
NO LONGER HAS THIS DREAM.
THEY SEE THEMSELVES
AS FRANKFURTERS
HOWEVER,
THEY OFTEN GET TOGETHER
TO CELEBRATE
THEIR TURKISH HERITAGE.
[WOMAN TRANSLATING  G T]
DEEP INSIDE ME,
I STILL KEEP MY TURKISH ROOTS,
TRADITIONS AND WAY OF THINKING.
ALL OF THIS COMES
FROM MY UPBRINGING,
BUT I'M A GERMAN CITIZEN NOW.
AND THIS COMBINATION IS NICE,
BUT IT CONFUSES ME
A LITTLE BIT.
I COULDN'T SAY WHETHER I'M
A HUNDRED PERCENT GERMAN,
OR A HUNDRED PERCENT TURK.
[MAN TRANSLATING GERMAN MAN]
WE FRANKFURTERS ARE USED
TO PEOPLE FROM ABROAD,
WE'RE NOT ALWAYS HAPPY
WITH THEIR BEHAVIOR
AND SOME OF THEIR
INTOLERANT BELIEFS,
BUT WELL-MEANING AND DECENT
PEOPLE ARE WELCOME.
NARRATOR: THERE ARE
CERTAINLY MANY GERMANS
WILLING TO ACCEPT
TURKISH GERMANS,
SUCH AS MERAL  G T.
BUT THERE ARE OTHERS
WHO ARE NOT.
[MAN TRANSLATING SCHLIERER]
I THINK ESPECIALLY OUR YOUTH
IS FACING A SERIOUS PROBLEM.
IN THEIR OWN CITIES
AND COMMUNITIES
THEY NO LONGER FEEL LIKE
THEY ARE IN THEIR OWN COUNTRY.
THEY FEEL LIKE FOREIGNERS
IN THEIR OWN COUNTRY
AND THEY ARE NOT ALLOWED
TO ENTER CERTAIN AREAS,
BECAUSE THESE HAVE BECOME
TURKISH OCCUPIED ZONES.
NATURALLY,
THIS IS A RACIAL PROBLEM,
WHICH WILL LEAD
TO CONFRONTATION.
[CROWD CHANTING IN GERMAN]
[MAN TRANSLATING BRINK]
A FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLE
OF THE FASCIST IDEOLOGY
IS RACISM.
AND FASCISTS REALLY BELIEVE
THERE'S SOMETHING SPECIAL
ABOUT THE GERMAN PEOPLE,
WHATEVER THAT MEANS.
THERE ISN'T SUCH A THING
AS "THE GERMAN PEOPLE."
WE'VE HAD IMMIGRANTS
COMING TO GERMANY
FOR THOUSANDS OF YEARS.
[WOMAN TRANSLATING
MRS. EBRAHIM HANY]
WE'RE VERY HAPPY HERE.
[MAN TRANSLATING
MR. EBRAHIM HANY]
WE LIVE HERE LIKE A FAMILY.
[WOMAN TRANSLATING
MRS. EBRAHIM HANY]
LIKE A FAMILY, SOMEHOW
THIS IS OUR COUNTRY NOW.
NARRATOR: FOR MANY FOREIGNERS
GERMANY IS HOME.
AND FOR SECOND AND THIRD
GENERATION IMMIGRANTS
THIS IS THE ONLY HOME
THEY KNOW.
[MAN TRANSLATING LEE]
MY PROBLEM IS THAT
I WAS BORN AND GREW UP
IN GERMANY.
AND I FEEL GERMAN,
BUT I DON'T LOOK GERMAN.
AND IN KOREA I LOOK KOREAN,
BUT I DON'T FEEL KOREAN.
BUT THE FUNNY THING IS THAT
WHEN GERMANS SEE ME,
THEY SEE ONLY AN ASIAN.
NO MORE.
AND THEY THINK,
MAYBE HE'S A TOURIST.
MAYBE A STUDENT.
JUST A FOREIGNER.
I GREW UP WITH GERMAN FRIENDS
IN A GERMAN SCHOOL,
BUT MY PARENTS ALWAYS TRIED
TO BRING ME UP THE KOREAN WAY
AND TO MAKE A KOREAN OUT OF ME.
THEY WANTED ME TO THINK
AND BEHAVE LIKE A KOREAN.
NARRATOR: 24 YEARS
AFTER YUNG LEE'S PARENTS
IMMIGRATED TO FRANKFURT,
THE CITY HAS THE LARGEST
KOREAN COMMUNITY IN EUROPE.
AND KOREAN PARENTS
ARE STILL TRYING
TO BRING UP THEIR KIDS
THE KOREAN WAY.
[SPEAKING KOREAN]
[WOMAN TRANSLATING LEE]
I THINK IT'S VERY IMPORTANT
FOR OUR KIDS TO LEARN
WHAT IT MEANS TO BE KOREAN
AND THAT KOREA IS STILL
PART OF THEIR LIVES.
AND FOR US
IT'S IMPORTANT
TO TEACH OUR KIDS
THE KOREAN LANGUAGE,
BECAUSE THIS IS ESSENTIAL
IF WE WANT THEM
TO KEEP OUR CULTURE.
NARRATOR: AT THE FRANKFURT
KOREAN CULTURE SCHOOL
EVERY SATURDAY HUNDREDS OF KIDS
SPEND THEIR DAY IN CLASSROOMS
LEARNING TO THINK AND BEHAVE
LIKE KOREANS.
BUT I THE SCHOOLYARD THEY PLAY
ACCORDING TO
THE BEST GERMAN TRADITION.
[MAN TRANSLATING YUNG LEE]
I FEEL GERMAN, BUT GERMANS
ONLY SEE ME AS AN ASIAN
WHO SPEAKS FLUENT GERMAN.
THEY SEE AN ASIAN
BORN IN GERMANY
WHO SPEAKS GERMAN PERFECTLY.
BUT THEY STILL SEE ME
AS KOREAN, JAPANESE OR CHINESE,
BUT NOT GERMAN.
[WOMAN TRANSLATING
WOLF-ALMANASREH]
GLOBALIZATION
HAS MADE IT VERY CLEAR:
THE FOREIGNERS WHO COME
TO GERMANY ARE IMMIGRANTS
AND LOTS OF THEM
WILL STAY HERE,
AS WELL AS THEIR CHILDREN
AND GRANDCHILDREN.
NARRATOR: JUST LIKE
IN THE MUSIC VIDEOS THEY WATCH,
IN FRANKFURT, TEENAGERS
OF ALL RACES AND NATIONALITIES
ALREADY ACCEPT EACH OTHER
WITHOUT MAKING
A BIG DEAL OF IT.
[WOMAN TRANSLATING RABENAU]
IN MY HIGH SCHOOL
WE HAVE STUDENTS
FROM DIFFERENT COUNTRIES.
WE HAVE KIDS FROM ITALY,
SPAIN, POLAND, SERBIA,
AND WE ALL GET ALONG FINE.
WE'RE ALL FRIENDS.
IT'S NO BIG DEAL.
[MAN TRANSLATING STRANSKY]
ON THE STREETS ONE KNOWS
THAT KIDS FROM AFRICA
ARE MORE AGGRESSIVE THAN KIDS
FROM WEST OR EAST GERMANY,
OR ANY OTHER COUNTRY.
KIDS FROM DOWN THERE
ARE MUCH MORE AGGRESSIVE.
[WOMAN TRANSLATING RABENAU]
GERMAN KIDS DON'T HAVE
BIG PROBLEMS WITH FOREIGNERS.
OFTEN THE FOREIGN KIDS
CREATE THEIR OWN PROBLEMS.
[MAN TRANSLATING STRANSKY]
AND THEN WHEN DRUGS
COME INTO THE PICTURE,
SMOKING WHATEVER YOU CAN GET,
MOSTLY GRASS,
GANGS BEGIN TO FIGHT
FOR CONTROL OF THE STREETS.
THEN EVERYTHING GOES,
BETRAYALS, THREATS, MURDER.
ANYTHING YOU CAN IMAGINE.
NARRATOR: IN FRANKFURT
DIFFERENCES AMONG YOUNG PEOPLE
ARE NO LONGER BASED
ON NATIONALITY OR RACE,
BUT ON SOCIAL PROBLEMS
WHICH ARE THE SAME
IN ANY GLOBAL CITY.
[WOMAN TRANSLATING
WOLF-ALMANASREH]
GERMAN AND FOREIGN KIDS
ARE GROWING UP TOGETHER.
THEY GO TO THE SAME SCHOOLS
AND THEY LIVE
IN THE SAME NEIGHBORHOODS.
THIS IS AN EXAMPLE
OF MULTI-CULTURALISM.
[MAN TRANSLATING ERZAN]
HOW DO OUR KIDS GET ALONG?
LIKE KIDS ANYWHERE.
THEIR ETHNICITY DOESN'T MATTER.
NATURALLY,
SOMETIMES THERE ARE CONFLICTS.
KIDS ARE KIDS.
THEY MIGHT FIGHT
OVER A BOOK OR A TOY,
BUT ETHNIC DIFFERENCES
MEAN NOTHING TO THEM.
THERE WE HAVE TOTAL PEACE.
ROLF BREUER: I THINK
THAT WE SHOULD DEVELOP
INTO AN OPEN SOCIETY,
COMPARABLE TO OTHER NATIONS.
WE ARE NOT
THE FIRST ONE TO INVENT
A PROPER EDUCATED
IMMIGRATION POLICY.
WE JUST LOOK
AT THE UNITED STATES,
WE LOOK AT OTHER DEVELOPED
COUNTRIES IN EUROPE,
THEN WE SEE WHAT WE SHOULD DO,
AND I THINK WE ARE
ON A VERY GOOD WAY.
[SPEAKING GERMAN,
ALL REPEATING SAME PHRASE]
[SPEAKING GERMAN]
NOT FRANKFURT, KENTUCKY.
NOT FRANKFURT, INDIANA,
THE STATE WHERE I'M FROM,
BUT "FRANKFURT HIER AM MAIN."
CAPTIONS: BROADCAST TEXT
WWW.BROADCASTTEXT.COM